examples/web-vite-react-public-key-login/README.md, before:

# Web Vite React Public-Key Login

Minimal web client dedicated to the `device-public-key-login` realm resource. It generates a local device key, solves optional PoW, sends the signed payload, and shows the backend-issued `user_id` plus binding status.

## Highlights

- Pure-JS P-256 device key generation via `@noble/curves`.
- IndexedDB device store backed by `@tanstack/db` + `idb-keyval`.
- Single-screen Flow in `src/pages/public-key-login-page.tsx`.
- Manual device binding plus `Generate access token` button driven by the stored user ID.
- Tailwind + DaisyUI styling without additional routing or layout cruft.

## Keycloak requirements

- Register the `device-public-key-login` provider in your realm.
- Configure `KEYCLOAK_BASE_URL`, `REALM`, and optionally `CLIENT_ID` in `src/config.ts`.
- Mirror any PoW difficulty set via `PUBLIC_KEY_LOGIN_POW_DIFFICULTY_{realm}` by exporting the same number in `VITE_PUBLIC_LOGIN_POW_DIFFICULTY`.
- The client automatically includes `device_os`, `device_model`, and optional `device_app_version` metadata (you can override the latter with `VITE_DEVICE_APP_VERSION`).

## Run

```bash
cd examples/web-vite-react-public-key-login
npm install
npm run dev
```

The app runs on `http://localhost:5173` by default and immediately displays the public-key login experience.

Commit message:

feat: implement device public-key login flow and integrate backend API calls in web-vite-react example

examples/web-vite-react-public-key-login/README.md, after:

# Web Vite React Public-Key Login

Minimal web client dedicated to the `device-public-key-login` realm resource. It generates a local device key, solves optional PoW, sends the signed payload, and shows the backend-issued `user_id` plus binding status.

## Highlights

- Pure-JS P-256 device key generation via `@noble/curves`.
- IndexedDB device store backed by `@tanstack/db` + `idb-keyval`.
- Single-screen Flow in `src/pages/public-key-login-page.tsx`.
- Manual device binding plus `Generate access token` button driven by the stored user ID.
- Tailwind + DaisyUI styling without additional routing or layout cruft.
- Calls the `backend-spring-kotlin` `/v1/users` and `/v1/devices/lookup` APIs plus the `resource-server-spring-kotlin` `/health` and `/get` endpoints so you can inspect both example backends.

## Keycloak requirements

- Register the `device-public-key-login` provider in your realm.
- Configure `KEYCLOAK_BASE_URL`, `REALM`, and optionally `CLIENT_ID` in `src/config.ts`.
- Mirror any PoW difficulty set via `PUBLIC_KEY_LOGIN_POW_DIFFICULTY_{realm}` by exporting the same number in `VITE_PUBLIC_LOGIN_POW_DIFFICULTY`.
- The client automatically includes `device_os`, `device_model`, and optional `device_app_version` metadata (you can override the latter with `VITE_DEVICE_APP_VERSION`).

## Example backend integrations

- `VITE_BACKEND_BASE_URL` (default: `http://localhost:18080`) points to the `backend-spring-kotlin` service that hosts `/v1/users` and `/v1/devices/lookup`.
- `VITE_RESOURCE_SERVER` (default: `http://localhost:18081`) targets the `resource-server-spring-kotlin` service whose `/health` and `/get` endpoints are called after token acquisition.

## Run

```bash
cd examples/web-vite-react-public-key-login
npm install
npm run dev
```

The app runs on `http://localhost:5173` by default and immediately displays the public-key login experience.
